docs: update KLIP-38 and add Docs for Variables in ksqlDB (#6523)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/developer-guide/variable-substitution.md

---
layout: page
title: ksqlDB Variable Substitution
tagline: Use variables in SQL statements
description: Learn how to use variables in SQL statements

> ---------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
```

Define variables
----------------

Syntax:
```
DEFINE <name> = '<value>';

Where: 
  <name>     is the variable name
  <value>    is the variable value
```

> Valid variables names start with a letter or underscore (\_) followed by zero or more alphanumeric characters or underscores (_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valid variable names start with a letter or underscore (\_) followed by zero or more alphanumeric characters or underscores (_).
```

> There are no type definition for values.  All variables values must be wrapped into single-quotes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no type definition for a value.  All variable values must be enclosed into single-quotes.
```

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following DEFINE statements show example assignments to variable values.
```

```
DEFINE replicas = '3';
DEFINE format = 'JSON';
DEFINE name = 'Tom Sawyer';
```

> Single-quotes are removed during variable substitution. If you need to escape single-quotes, then wrap the value with triple-quotes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single-quotes are removed during variable substitution. To escape single-quotes, enclose the value with triple-quotes.
```

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following DEFINE statement shows an example variable assignment that embeds single quotes in the value.
```

```
# becomes 'my_topic'
DEFINE topicName = '''my_topic''';      
```

> Deleting variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete variables
```

> ------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----------------
```

Syntax:
```
UNDEFINE name;
```

> You can delete defined variables with the `UNDEFINE` syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete defined variables by using the `UNDEFINE` statement.
```

> Printing variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Print variables
```

> ------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---------------
```

Syntax:
```
SHOW VARIABLES;
```

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to assign and print variable values.
```

```
ksql> DEFINE replicas = '3';
ksql> DEFINE format = 'AVRO';
ksql> DEFINE topicName = '''my_topic''';
ksql> SHOW VARIABLES;

 Variable Name | Value      
----------------------------
 replicas      | 3
 format        | AVRO         
 topicName     | 'my_topic' 
----------------------------
```

> Referencing substitution variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference substitution variables
```

> ----------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--------------------------------
```

> Variables are referenced by wrapping the variable name between `${}` characters (i.e. `${replicas}`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference a variable by enclosing the variable name between `${}` characters, for example, `${replicas}`.
```

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to assign and reference variable values.
```

```

> ksql> DEFINE format = 'AVRO';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DEFINE format = 'AVRO';
```

Reviewer: Usually, we don't include command prompts in example commands, to enable easy copy-paste from the page. But if there's example output, like you have in the previous example, we'll include the command prompts, for clarity.

> ksql> DEFINE replicas = '3';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DEFINE replicas = '3';
```

> ksql> CREATE STREAM stream1 (id INT) WITH (kafka_topic='stream1', value_format='${format}', replicas=${replicas});

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE STREAM stream1 (id INT) WITH (kafka_topic='stream1', value_format='${format}', replicas=${replicas});
```

```

> Substitution will not attempt to add single-quotes to the values. You need to know the data type to use when using a variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ksqlDB doesn't add single-quotes to values during variable substitution. Also, you must know the data type of a variable to use it.
```

> Note: Variables are case-insensitive. A reference to `${replicas}` is the same as `${REPLICAS}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note
    Variables are case-insensitive. A reference to `${replicas}` is the same as `${REPLICAS}`.
```

Context for substitution variables
----------------------------------

> Variable substitution are allowed in specific SQL statements. They can be used to replace text and non-text literals, and identifiers such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variable substitution is allowed in specific SQL statements. You can replace text and non-text literals, and identifiers like
```

> column names and stream/table names. Variables cannot be used as reserved keywords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
column names and stream/table names. You can't use variables as reserved keywords.
```

> For instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following statements show examples of using variables for stream and column names, and in other places.  
```

```

> ksql> CREATE STREAM ${streamName} (${colName1} INT, ${colName2} STRING) \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE STREAM ${streamName} (${colName1} INT, ${colName2} STRING) \
```

>       WITH (kafka_topic='${topicName}', format='${format}', replicas=${replicas}, ...);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WITH (kafka_topic='${topicName}', format='${format}', replicas=${replicas}, ...);
```

> ksql> INSERT INTO ${streamName} (${colName1}, ${colName2}) \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INSERT INTO ${streamName} (${colName1}, ${colName2}) \
```

>       VALUES (${val1}, '${val2}');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VALUES (${val1}, '${val2}');
```

> ksql> SELECT * FROM ${streamName} \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT * FROM ${streamName} \
```

>       WHERE ${colName1} == ${val1} and ${colName2} == '${val2}' EMIT CHANGES; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WHERE ${colName1} == ${val1} and ${colName2} == '${val2}' EMIT CHANGES; 
```

```

> Any attempt of using variables on non-permitted places will fail with the current SQL parsing error found when parsing the variable string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a variable in a statement that doesn't support variables causes a SQL parsing error.
```

> Enable/disable substitution variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable or disable substitution variables
```

> -------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----------------------------------------
```

> The `ksql.variable.substitution.enable` config will be used to enable/disable this feature. The config can be enabled from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable or disable variable substitution by setting the `ksql.variable.substitution.enable` config. You can set this config in
```

> the server-side configuration (ksql-server.properties), or it can be overriden by the users in the CLI or HTTP requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the server-side configuration file (`ksql-server.properties`), or you can set it in CLI and HTTP requests.
```
